Translationfix.pl is a script to do just what the name indicates: fix the translation.
The problem is that the game engine is rather picky regarding how to handle the text files.
Failure to meet the requirements will result in the game crashing when the broken line is reached.
Also the text files contain both text to be translated as well as code to handle mouse clicks, option selection,
sprite movement and so on. This opens up for another type of bugs, which is translators breaking the game code without knowing it.

Summary of fixes/checks:
-fail if control code is modified
-fail if speaker is wrong (it gains translated names from names.txt)
-autotranslate names if untranslated
-fail if wrong audio file for dialogue
-converts between normal and wide characters as needed (starting a line with a or ÇÅ will not do the same and failures will likely crash)
-converts between @ and Åó (both are used and using the wrong one will crash)

In addition to this, only text using wide characters will be displayed in the backlog.
Also words are split between two lines as there is no check for this issue.

Because of this, the top of the script has the flags $to_wide_char, $to_short_char and $split_lines
This can make the script convert the text to wide characters and insert newlines to not splilt words.

Changing back into narrow text after splitting lines is buggy and will not work for the time being.
Also the script identifies newlines as errors. Be careful not to break the text files with this.


Copying files into the game
The script has the ability to copy files from git into the game itself. To do so, add a file called "path to game.txt"
This file should contain the path to the game. Nothing else.
Once the script validation is done, all files from scripts and musume are copied to the game (if found).

It is recommended to work on the git version of the files and then use thes script to copy to the game to test. This will work best with git.


In some cases the translation needs to divert from the untranslated files. Normally that is an error and the script will not allow it.
A few flags has been added to tell translationfix that the divertion is intentional. Note that they all start with #SCRIPT.
Any line starting with # is viewed as comment by the game itself and will be ignored.

#SCRIPT ADD DIALOGUE
The following translated line will be treated as a dialogue without being compared to the untranslated script.
The problem this is trying to solve is that kanji takes up less screen space than translated text.
This mean a screen full of kanji is likely to require two screens of translated text to be displayed.

#SCRIPT ADD KANJI
REMOVED
It used to be used to correct encoding issues. Now the script can automatically identify the problem lines
without human guidance and convert narrow to wide chars if needed.

The following commands shouldn't be used by translators as they are more aimed at programming.

#SCRIPT IGNORE
#SCRIPT IGNORE END
The lines between those two lines are ignored by the error correcting part of the script.
As a result, the lines are written to the resulting file without any modifications.

WARNING: this can really screw up dialogues
Use #SCRIPT ADD DIALOGUE for new dialogues instead. The ignore feature is intended for script bug fixing

#SCRIPT SKIP JAPANESE LINES x
Can only be used inside ignored blocks of code.
This will skip x untranslated lines. This allows replacing code rather than just adding code.

WARNING: this is potientially even more dangerous than just adding ignored code. Use with care.

#SCRIPT GROUP
Used exclusively in scripts.ini
It's unlikely that more needs to be added.
It sets a group name, which is only used for translation statistics
When a file is read by the script, it adds the number of lines and number of translated lines to the current group.
This mean by setting #SCRIPT GROUP Karin day, the next files will count towards statistics of Karin day,
which happens to be Karin related events other than training.
The stats file will then tell how complete Karin's route is translated.
All groups listed in the statistics are defined this way.